Burp Suite
Burp Suite is a collection of tools geared
towards web application security testing,
arguably best-known as
a powerful proxy tool.
Burp Suite has an extensive feature list
and is worth investigation,
but we will only explore a
few basic functions in this section.
When Burp launches, we receive a message
about our Java runtime environment,
which we can safely ignore.
At the first screen, we’ll click Next.
Then we’ll leave Use Burp defaults
selected and click Start Burp.
Let’s start with the Proxy tool.
With this tool, we can intercept any
request sent from the browser
before it is passed on to the server.
We can change almost anything
about the request at this point,
such as parameter names, form values,
or adding new headers.
This lets us test how an application
handles unexpected arbitrary input.
For example, an input field might
have a size limit of 20 characters,
but we could use Burp Suite to modify
a request to submit 30 characters.
Under the Intercept tab, we can enable or
disable the interception of web requests.
When Intercept is enabled,
we have to manually click on Forward
to send each request
onward to its destination.
Alternatively, we can click Drop
to not send the request.
There are times when we will want to
intercept traffic and modify it,
but when we are just browsing a site,
having to click Forward on each
request becomes very tedious.
The Intercept toggle button displays
the current state of the tool
and can be used to enable
or disable it as required.
For this module, we will
set this to Intercept is off
to allow our browser
traffic to flow normally.
Next, we can review
the proxy listener settings.
The Options sub-tab shows what ports
are listening for proxy requests.
By default, Burp Suite enables a
proxy listener on localhost:8080.
This is the host and port that
our browser must connect to
in order to proxy
traffic through Burp Suite.
We will leave these default settings.
The Intercept tool is enabled at startup
in Burp Suite’s default configuration.
We can check this setting
under User options.
Many users prefer to disable
Intercept on startup,
which can be done by
selecting Always disable.
Next, we’ll select Proxy
and then HTTP history.
The contents will be blank until traffic
has been sent through Burp Suite.
FoxyProxy Basic is a “simple on/off
proxy switcher” add-on for Firefox.
We will use it to enable or disable
the Firefox proxy settings.
Let’s install that now.
A welcome page for FoxyProxy
opens automatically when
the installation is complete.
We also have a new icon
to the right of the URL bar.
FoxyProxy is disabled by default,
which we can verify
visually by looking at the icon.
If it has a red circle
with a slash through it,
the add-on is disabled.
Before enabling FoxyProxy,
we need to add a profile.
First, we’ll click the icon
and select Options.
On the Options page, we’ll click Add
to open the “Add Proxy” screen.
To set up a profile for Burp Suite,
we will leave Proxy Type set to “HTTP”.
Then we’ll enter “Burp” for the Title,
add our localhost IP address,
and port 8080.
Finally, we’ll click Save
to add the configuration.
After we save, our new proxy
is listed on the Options page.
We can enable it by clicking
the FoxyProxy icon again,
and then clicking Use proxy
Burp for all URLs.
Our FoxyProxy icon is no longer crossed
out and has “Burp” superimposed on it.
With the proxy enabled, we’ll browse
to the MegaCorp One homepage.
We should see traffic in Burp Suite
under the HTTP history tab.
If the web page does not load,
we likely still have Intercept enabled.
In this case, make sure it is disabled.
Up to this point, we’ve only
looked at cleartext HTTP traffic.
However, if we browse an HTTPS site
while proxying traffic through Burp
(such as https://www.google.com),
we’ll be presented with an
“invalid certificate” warning:
Burp can easily decrypt HTTPS traffic
by generating its own certificate,
essentially man-in-the-middling ourselves
in order to capture the traffic.
These warnings can be irritating
but we can prevent them
by issuing a new certificate
and importing it into Firefox.
Even though each Burp Suite CA
certificate should be unique,
we will ensure this by regenerating it.
To do this, we will navigate to
Options under the Proxy tab.
In the Proxy Listeners section,
we’ll click Regenerate CA certificate.
Then we’ll click Yes on the confirmation
dialog and restart Burp Suite.
Again, we’ll keep all of the
defaults when burp launches…
..and we’ll also turn off Intercept again.
To import the new
CA certificate into Firefox,
we will first browse to
the burp welcome page.
On this page, we’ll click CA Certificate
and save the file to our local machine.
Once the download is complete,
we can drag and drop the
downloaded file into Firefox.
We’ll select Trust this CA to
identify websites and click OK.
To verify the import was successful,
we can again browse to a site using HTTPS,
which should load without a warning.
This should have generated HTTPS traffic
within BurpSuite’s HTTP History tab.
Finally, with the Repeater tool,
we can easily modify requests,
resend them,
and review the responses.
To see this in action, we can right-click
a request and select Send to Repeater.
If we click on Repeater,
we will have one sub-tab with the
request on the left side of the window.
We can send multiple requests to Repeater
and it will display them on separate tabs.
We can send the request to
the server by clicking Send.
Burp Suite displays the raw server
response on the right side of the window,
which includes the response headers
and unrendered response content.
Web application exploitation often
requires a great deal of trial and error
as we submit and modify requests
and monitor the responses.
Repeater is very useful for this as we
can quickly tweak elements of the request
and resend them without waiting for
our browser to render every response.